docs: RHIDP-876 Enabling authentication - overview (#81)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/auth/assembly-enabling-authentication.adoc

[id='enabling-authentication']
= Enabling authentication in {product}

Authentication within {product} facilitates user sign-in, identification, and access to external resources.
It supports multiple authentication providers.

Authentication providers are typically used in the following ways:

- One provider for sign-in and identification.
- Additional providers for accessing external resources.

The {product} supports the following authentication providers:

Auth0:: `auth0`
Atlassian:: `atlassian`
Microsoft Azure:: `microsoft`
Microsoft Azure Easy Auth:: `azure-easyauth`
Bitbucket:: `bitbucket`
Bitbucket Server:: `bitbucketServer`
Cloudflare Access:: `cfaccess`
GitHub:: `github`
GitLab:: `gitlab`
Google:: `google`
Google IAP:: `gcp-iap`
OIDC:: `oidc`
Okta:: `okta`
OAuth 2 Custom Proxy:: `oauth2Proxy`
OneLogin:: `onelogin`
SAML:: `saml`

> For each provider, follow the dedicated procedure to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each provider, follow the dedicated procedure to:
```

I assume the user is expected to either google the provider's config details, or CTRL-F in the admin guide for details?

Reviewer 2: I was expecting that the list above will have links to configuration page (section) for each provider. Is that right @themr0c ?

Author: Yes, when the procedures for each provider will follow, it will make more sense

Author: https://github.com/redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh/pull/78 will come first, then the others, when we have settled on a structure that satisfies everybody.

> For each provider, follow the dedicated procedure to:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For each provider that you want to use, follow the dedicated procedure to:
```

Reviewer 3: Just to clarify that they don't actually have to follow the procedure for each provider, unless they want to.

> [id='enabling-authentication']

Reviewer 3: @hmanwani-rh does the id need to be `assembly-enabling-authentication` or is it ok as is? We might want to convert this to a title one day.

Author: I have looked at some other assemblies in the repository, and they do not have the prefix.

= Enabling authentication in {product}

Authentication within {product} facilitates user sign-in, identification, and access to external resources.
It supports multiple authentication providers.

> Usually, set up:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Authentication providers are typically used in the following ways:
```

- One provider for sign-in and identification.
- Additional providers for accessing external resources.

The {product} supports the following authentication providers:

Auth0:: `auth0`
Atlassian:: `atlassian`
Microsoft Azure:: `microsoft`
Microsoft Azure Easy Auth:: `azure-easyauth`
Bitbucket:: `bitbucket`
Bitbucket Server:: `bitbucketServer`
Cloudflare Access:: `cfaccess`
GitHub:: `github`
GitLab:: `gitlab`
Google:: `google`
Google IAP:: `gcp-iap`
OIDC:: `oidc`
Okta:: `okta`
OAuth 2 Custom Proxy:: `oauth2Proxy`
OneLogin:: `onelogin`
SAML:: `saml`

For each provider, follow the dedicated procedure to:

> . Set up in your provider the secrets that {product} requires to communicate with the provider.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Set up the secrets that {product} requires to communicate with the provider.
```

Author: I believe here it is important to distinguish what you are doing on the provider side from what you are doing on the product side. With your suggestion we would loose that.

Or maybe:

```suggestion
. Set up the secrets that {product-short} requires to communicate with the provider, on the provider side, then on {product-short} side.
```

and remove the next line. 

WDYT @linfraze?

Reviewer 3: I do agree. I think it's good practice to start by orienting the user, so my original change was _In the provider settings, set up the secrets..._ but it sounded a little awkward with the lead-in sentence, so I just removed it and figured the details would be shared the associated procedures. Maybe we can say _...in both the provider and {product-short} settings_ ? If that is what we actually mean. Saying _on the [provider/RHDH] side_ is a little informal and vague.

> . Set up in your provider the secrets that {product} requires to communicate with the provider.
> . Add the authentication provider secrets in {product}.

Author: @linfraze Keeping clarity, and minimal:
 
```suggestion
. Set up the shared secret that the authentication provider and {product} require to communicate.
```
